hi today we're going to talk about
iterated distillation and amplification
so let's say we want to play go and we
want to be really good at it so we're
trying to create a function which if
we're given a go board in a particular
state we'll take that board state as
input and return a very high-quality
move that you can make from that
position what we're trying to create is
a policy a function which Maps States
onto actions suppose that what we have
though is something just slightly
different suppose what we have is our
intuition about moves which takes a
board state and it gives us for each of
the possible moves we could make some
sense of how good that move would be we
can think of this as an action value
function which assigns a real number to
each move which represents how good we
think that move is alternatively we can
think of it as outputting a distribution
over all possible moves so for a human
player this represents your intuition
the go player looks at the board state
and says it looks like maybe this move
might be good this move probably is a
bad idea
this one looks ok you could also have a
neural network which takes the board
state and a possible move as input and
outputs how good it thinks that move is
ok so how do you get the understanding
of the game that allows you to evaluate
moves well as a human you can study the
rules and watch some games played by
people who are better at go than you are
if you have a neural network then it's
also fairly straightforward you can
train the network with a large number of
high quality human played games until
its output gives a good prediction of
what a skilled human would do so
strictly speaking in that case the
network isn't evaluating how good a move
is it's evaluating how likely a good
player would be to make that move but
that can be used as a proxy for how good
the move is once we have this action
value function there's a pretty obvious
way to turn it into a policy which is
just Arg max you look at all of the
moves with your intuition or evaluate
them all with the network find the
best-looking move the move that's
highest rated and use that but if you
have more time to think or more
computational resources you can do
better rather than just going with your
first instinct about what you think is
good
you could play forward a few moves in
your head you might think okay from this
board state it looks like this move
would be good what does the board look
like if I play that and then
you can apply your action value function
again from the perspective of your
opponent often there'll be more than one
move that looks promising so you might
want to consider some of the
best-looking moves and then apply your
action value function again to think
about how you might respond to each of
them and so on exploring the tree so
what you're effectively doing here is
tree search right you have a game tree
of possible moves and you're searching
through it deciding which branches to
search down using your action value
function you can keep doing this for
however much time you have it might be
that you think far enough ahead that you
actually get to the end of the game and
you can see that some move is clearly
good because it wins you the game or
some other move is clearly bad because
it causes your opponent to win the game
well you might just look a little bit
ahead and try to evaluate where you are
you might look at the general quality of
the moves that you have available to get
a feel for whether this is a state you
want to be in or one you want to avoid
and after you've done all this thinking
you might have learned things that
contradict your initial intuition there
might be some move which seemed good to
you when you first thought of it but
then once you actually think through
what your opponent would do if you made
that move and what you would do in
response to that and so on that the move
actually doesn't look good at all so you
do all of this thinking ahead and then
you have some way of taking what you've
learned and getting a new set of ratings
for the moves you could make and this
can be more accurate than your original
action value function for a human this
is this kind of fuzzy process of
thinking about moves and their
consequences and in a program like
alphago or alpha zero this is done with
Monte Carlo tree search where there's a
structured way of extracting information
from this tree search process so there's
a sense in which this whole process of
using the action value function
repeatedly and searching the tree
represents something of the same type as
the original action value function it
takes a board state as input and it
gives you move evaluations it allows us
to take our original action value
function which on its own is a weak
player and by applying it lots of times
in this structured way we can amplify
that weak player to create a stronger
player so now our amplified action value
function is the same type of thing as
our unamplified one how do they compare
well the amplified one is much bigger so
it's more expensive
for a human it takes more thinking time
as a program it needs more computational
resources but it's also better than just
going with a single network or the
single human intuition it smooth
evaluations are more accurate so that's
pretty neat we can take a faster but not
very good player and amplify it to get a
more expensive but stronger player
there's something else we can do though
which is we can take what we've learned
as part of this process to improve our
original action value function we can
compare the outputs of the fast process
and the amplified version and say hmm
the quick process gives this move a high
rating but when we think it all through
with the amplified system it turns out
not to be a good move so where did the
quick system go wrong and how do we fix
it if you're a human you can maybe do
this explicitly perhaps you can spot the
mistake that you made that caused you to
think this was a good move and try to
keep it in mind next time you'll also
learn unconsciously your general pattern
matching ability will pick up some
information about the value of making
that kind of move from that kind of
position and with a neural network you
can just use the output of the amplified
process as training data for the network
as you keep doing this the small fast
system will come to reflect some of what
you've learned by exploring the game
tree so this process is kind of like
distilling down this big amplified
system into the quick cheap to run
system and the thing that makes this
really powerful is we can do the whole
thing again right now that we've got
slightly better intuitions or slightly
better weights for our network we can
then amplify that new action value
function and this will give us better
results firstly because obviously if
your movie valuations are more accurate
than before then the move evaluations at
the end of this process will be more
accurate than before better quality in
better quality out but secondly it also
allows you to search the tree more
efficiently if your intuitions about
move quality are better you can spend
more of your time looking at better
parts of the tree and less time
examining in detail the consequences of
bad moves that aren't going to get
played anyway so using the same extra
resources the new amplified system is
better than the previous amplified
system and that means that when it comes
to the distillation phase of learning
from the exploration there's more to
learn and your action value function can
improve again so it's a cycle with two
stages for
to amplify by using extra computational
resources to make the system more
powerful and then you distill by
training the fast system with the output
of the amplified system and then you
repeat so the system will keep on
improving so when does this process end
well it depends on your implementation
but eventually you'll reach a fixed
point where the fast system isn't able
to learn anything more from the
amplified system for simple problems
this might happen because the
unamplified system becomes so good that
there's nothing to be gained by the
amplification process if your action
value function always suggests the
optimal move then the amplified system
is always just going to agree and no
more learning happens for harder
problems though it's much more likely
that you'll reach the limits of your
action value function implementation you
hit a point where a neural network of
that size and architecture just isn't
able to learn how to be better than that
by being trained on amplified gameplay
as a human even if you could study go
for infinite time eventually you'll hit
the limits of what your brain can do the
point is that the strength of the end
result of this process isn't limited by
the strength of the initial action value
function the limit is determined by the
architecture it's a fixed point of the
amplification and distillation process a
version of alphago that starts out
trained on amateur level games might
take longer to train to a given level
than one that started out trained on
grandmaster level games but after enough
training they'd both end up around the
same strength and in fact alpha zero
ended up even stronger than alphago even
though it started from zero using no
human games at all so that's how you can
use amplification and distillation to
get better at go and why as a software
system you can keep getting better even
when you have no external source to
learn from even once you leave humans
behind and you're the best go player in
the universe so there's nobody who can
teach you you can still keep learning
because you can learn from the amplified
version of yourself ok so why is this
relevant fire-safety well we've just
talked about one example of iterated
distillation and amplification the idea
is actually much more general than that
it's not just for playing go and it's
not just for Monte Carlo tree search and
neural networks amplification might be
this kind of process of thinking ahead
if you're a human being it might be
Monte Carlo tree search or something
like it if you're a software system but
it might be something else if you are
for example an age
I it might involve spinning up lots of
copies of yourself to collaborate with
or delegate to so that the team of
copies can be better at solving the
problem then you would be on your own
for some types of problem it might just
involve running your mind at a faster
rate to work on the problem for a long
period of subjective time the core
characteristic is that amplification
uses the original process as a starting
point and applies more computational
resources to create a more powerful
agent in the same way distillation can
be any process whereby we compress this
more expensive amplified agent into
something that we can call cheaply just
as we call the original system for a
human playing go this can be the way
your intuition gets better as you play
for a neural network playing go we can
train the action value network to give
the same outputs as the tree search
process for an AGI it could involve the
AGI learning in whatever way it learns
how to predict and imitate the team of
copies of itself or the accelerator
version of itself or whatever the
amplified system is the core
characteristic is that the cheaper
faster agent learns to approximate the
behavior of the more expensive amplified
agent so these two processes together
define a way of training a stronger
agent from a weaker one the hope for
safety research is that we can find
designs for the amplify and distill
procedures which preserve alignment by
which I mean that if the agent we
amplify is aligned with our goals and
values then the amplified agent will be
aligned as well and if the amplified
agent is aligned then the agent we
distill it down to will be aligned as
well in the next video we'll talk about
some ideas for how this might be done
I want to end this video with a big
thank you to all of my wonderful patrons
that's all of these fantastic people
here who have been just so generous and
so patient with me thank you all so much
in this video I'm especially thanking
Sayed Polat who joined in December just
before the start of this gap in uploads
and the reason for that is I've recently
really had to focus on the road to AI
safety excellence the online course I've
been working on in fact the video you
just watched is the first lecture from
our module on AI da which hasn't been
released yet so I also want to thank
everyone at the Rays Project for their
work on the script and the research for
this video and really the whole raised
team I'm still making content just for
this channel as well and in fact I have
one that's nearly ready to go so look
out for that thanks again for watching
and I'll see you soon